README.md, before:

This is a proof of concept implementation of NTS in Python

This code is based on Daniel Franke's hackathon code which implemented
parts of the NTS protocol:

Quick and dirty implementation of [Network Time
Security](https://github.com/dfoxfranke/nts) for the IETF 101
hackathon. Public domain.

Christer Weinigel <christer@weinigel.se> made some fixes the
implementation and added a NTSKE server, a NTS/UDP server and a
NTS/UDP client.

This implementation has been tested with Martin Langer's NTS
implementation which can be found here:

 https://gitlab.com/MLanger/ntp/
 https://gitlab.com/MLanger/nts/

Prerequisites
=============

Ubuntu 18.04.  Ubuntu 16.04 does not work due to the openssl libraries
being too old.  Intall the following packages:

 apt-get install git gcc binutils cmake libssl-dev python3-cffi

Checking out
============

Clone the repository:

 git clone https://github.com/Netnod/nts-poc-python.git

Testing the Python implementation
=================================

I've tested this implementation on Ubuntu 18.04.  The scripts require
Python 3.6, even though they are written to be compatible with Python
2.7.  I haven't figured out why Python 2.7 doesn't work yet.

Change directory to the top of the nts-poc-python tree:

 cd nts-poc-python

Check out Daniel Fox Franke's libaes_siv implementation and build it:

 git clone https://github.com/dfoxfranke/libaes_siv.git
 cd libaes_siv
 cmake .
 make

To start the NTSKE server, open a terminal and run:

 python3 ntske-server.py

The server uses server.ini for its configuration.  The default is for
the NTSKE server to listen on TCP port 4446.  The master keys are
stored in the directory "master_keys".  If no master key exists, the
NTSKE server will create a new master key.

To start the NTP/UDP server, open a terminal and run:

 python3 nts-server.py

The server uses the file "server.ini" for its configuration.  The
default is for the NTSKE server to listen on TCP port 4123.

Run the NTSKE client to talk to the NTSKE server and save the results
to the file "client.ini" and not perform certicate verification (-v).

 python3 ntske-client.py -v localhost 4446

Run the NTS client to talk to the NTS server and get a timestamped
packet back.

 python3 nts-client.py

If you want to talk to a different NTS server than the one specified
in client.ini you can specify the NTS server on the command line:

 python nts-client.py host port

If you want to rotate the master key, run server_helper.py:

 python3 server_helper.py

This will create a new key in the master_keys directory which will be
read by ntske-server.py or nts-server.py on the next request.

Testing with Martin Langer's NTS implementation
===============================================

As a hack to test compatibility, I've modified Martin's NTSKE server
so that it saves the master keys it is using to disk in the same
format as the python NTSKE implementation does.  The Python
implementation uses the same cookie format as Martin's implementation,
that is, the one recommended in the NTS draft with a 16 byte nonce.

Prerequsites
------------

First of all, Martin Langer's NTS implementation requires more recent
versions of cmake, openssl and boost than are available on Ubuntu
18.04, so you will have to build them yourself.

Download and build cmake-3.13.3 and install it under /opt:

 wget https://github.com/Kitware/CMake/releases/download/v3.13.3/cmake-3.13.3.tar.gz
 tar xvfz cmake-3.13.3.tar.gz
 cd cmake-3.13.3
 ./bootstrap --prefix=/opt/cmake-3.13.3
 make -j8
 make install
 cd ..

Download and build openssl-1.1.1a and install it under /opt:

 wget https://www.openssl.org/source/openssl-1.1.1a.tar.gz
 tar xvfz openssl-1.1.1a.tar.gz
 ./config --prefix=/opt/openssl-1.1.1a
 make -j8
 make install
 cd ..

Download and build boost-1.69 and install it under /opt:

 wget https://dl.bintray.com/boostorg/release/1.69.0/source/boost_1_69_0.tar.gz
 tar xvfz boost_1_69_0.tar.gz
 cd boost_1_69_0
 ./bootstrap.sh --prefix=/opt/boost-1.69
 ./b2 install -j8
 cd ..

Building Martin Langer's NTS
----------------------------

Clone the modified version of the ntp project:

 git clone --recursive https://gitlab.com/wingel/ntp.git

Build the modified version of the ntp project:

 cd ntp
 mkdir -p build
 cd build
 /opt/cmake-3.13.3/bin/cmake -DBOOST_ROOT=/opt/boost-1.69 -DOPENSSL_ROOT_DIR=/opt/openssl-1.1.1a ../src
 make

Running Martin Langer's NTS
---------------------------

To test this, open a terminal, clear out the master_keys generated by
the Python implementaton and then run Martin's implementation:

 rm -rf master_keys; ./ntp/build/ntp

Martin's implementation will use the configuration in the "config"
directory which is right now set to use TCP port 4443 for NTSKE and
UDP port 4123 for NTS.

To ask for cookies from Martin's NTSKE server, run:

 python3 ntske-client.py localhost 4443 rootCaBundle.pem

since Martin's implementation does not send a NTPv4 Port Negotiation
record, port 123 will be stored in "client.ini", so to talk to
Martin's NTPv4 server, run the following command:

 ./nts-client.py localhost 4123

if you are running nts-server.py, you can talk to it using:

 ./nts-client.py localhost 4126

You can also talk to the Python NTSKE server as described above and
those cookies will also work with with both server implementations.

Commit message:

Try to make code more production ready.
Make it possible to use both PyOpenSSL and a patched version of the
builtin ssl library for TLS support.

Convert ntske-server to use ThreadingTCPServer instead of a
custom accept loop.

Convert asserts to if statements which raise exceptions and add
more checks.

Miscellaneous cleanups.

README.md, after:

This is a proof of concept implementation of NTS in Python

This code is based on Daniel Franke's hackathon code which implemented
parts of the NTS protocol:

Quick and dirty implementation of [Network Time
Security](https://github.com/dfoxfranke/nts) for the IETF 101
hackathon. Public domain.

Christer Weinigel <christer@weinigel.se> made some fixes the
implementation and added a NTSKE server, a NTS/UDP server and a
NTS/UDP client.

This implementation has been tested with Martin Langer's NTS
implementation which can be found here:

 https://gitlab.com/MLanger/ntp/
 https://gitlab.com/MLanger/nts/

Prerequisites
=============

Ubuntu 18.04.  Ubuntu 16.04 does not work due to the openssl libraries
being too old.  Intall the following packages:

 apt-get install git gcc binutils cmake libssl-dev python3-cffi

Checking out
============

Clone the repository:

 git clone https://github.com/Netnod/nts-poc-python.git

Testing the Python implementation
=================================

I've tested this implementation on Ubuntu 18.04.  The scripts require
Python 3.6, even though they are written to be compatible with Python
2.7.  I haven't figured out why Python 2.7 doesn't work yet.

Warning: don't remove the assert sys.version_info[0] == 3 from the
files.  It might seem like it's working, but the SSL.Connection will
return corrupt data with some NTS servers.

Change directory to the top of the nts-poc-python tree:

 cd nts-poc-python

Check out Daniel Fox Franke's libaes_siv implementation and build it:

 git clone https://github.com/dfoxfranke/libaes_siv.git
 cd libaes_siv
 cmake .
 make

To start the NTSKE server, open a terminal and run:

 python3 ntske-server.py

The server uses server.ini for its configuration.  The default is for
the NTSKE server to listen on TCP port 4446.  The master keys are
stored in the directory "master_keys".  If no master key exists, the
NTSKE server will create a new master key.

To start the NTP/UDP server, open a terminal and run:

 python3 nts-server.py

The server uses the file "server.ini" for its configuration.  The
default is for the NTSKE server to listen on TCP port 4123.

Run the NTSKE client to talk to the NTSKE server and save the results
to the file "client.ini" and not perform certicate verification (-v).

 python3 ntske-client.py -v localhost 4446

Run the NTS client to talk to the NTS server and get a timestamped
packet back.

 python3 nts-client.py

If you want to talk to a different NTS server than the one specified
in client.ini you can specify the NTS server on the command line:

 python nts-client.py host port

If you want to rotate the master key, run server_helper.py:

 python3 server_helper.py

This will create a new key in the master_keys directory which will be
read by ntske-server.py or nts-server.py on the next request.

Testing with Martin Langer's NTS implementation
===============================================

As a hack to test compatibility, I've modified Martin's NTSKE server
so that it saves the master keys it is using to disk in the same
format as the python NTSKE implementation does.  The Python
implementation uses the same cookie format as Martin's implementation,
that is, the one recommended in the NTS draft with a 16 byte nonce.

Prerequsites
------------

First of all, Martin Langer's NTS implementation requires more recent
versions of cmake, openssl and boost than are available on Ubuntu
18.04, so you will have to build them yourself.

Download and build cmake-3.13.3 and install it under /opt:

 wget https://github.com/Kitware/CMake/releases/download/v3.13.3/cmake-3.13.3.tar.gz
 tar xvfz cmake-3.13.3.tar.gz
 cd cmake-3.13.3
 ./bootstrap --prefix=/opt/cmake-3.13.3
 make -j8
 make install
 cd ..

Download and build openssl-1.1.1a and install it under /opt:

 wget https://www.openssl.org/source/openssl-1.1.1a.tar.gz
 tar xvfz openssl-1.1.1a.tar.gz
 ./config --prefix=/opt/openssl-1.1.1a
 make -j8
 make install
 cd ..

Download and build boost-1.69 and install it under /opt:

 wget https://dl.bintray.com/boostorg/release/1.69.0/source/boost_1_69_0.tar.gz
 tar xvfz boost_1_69_0.tar.gz
 cd boost_1_69_0
 ./bootstrap.sh --prefix=/opt/boost-1.69
 ./b2 install -j8
 cd ..

Building Martin Langer's NTS
----------------------------

Clone the modified version of the ntp project:

 git clone --recursive https://gitlab.com/wingel/ntp.git

Build the modified version of the ntp project:

 cd ntp
 mkdir -p build
 cd build
 /opt/cmake-3.13.3/bin/cmake -DBOOST_ROOT=/opt/boost-1.69 -DOPENSSL_ROOT_DIR=/opt/openssl-1.1.1a ../src
 make

Running Martin Langer's NTS
---------------------------

To test this, open a terminal, clear out the master_keys generated by
the Python implementaton and then run Martin's implementation:

 rm -rf master_keys; ./ntp/build/ntp

Martin's implementation will use the configuration in the "config"
directory which is right now set to use TCP port 4443 for NTSKE and
UDP port 4123 for NTS.

To ask for cookies from Martin's NTSKE server, run:

 python3 ntske-client.py localhost 4443 rootCaBundle.pem

since Martin's implementation does not send a NTPv4 Port Negotiation
record, port 123 will be stored in "client.ini", so to talk to
Martin's NTPv4 server, run the following command:

 ./nts-client.py localhost 4123

if you are running nts-server.py, you can talk to it using:

 ./nts-client.py localhost 4126

You can also talk to the Python NTSKE server as described above and
those cookies will also work with with both server implementations.
